---
title: "Picking Parts - Wristband"
date: "17 September 2025"
---

It would be wise for me to begin finalizing my choices for parts this week, especially because I believe I may need to have some parts shipped from overseas. While I can't price out all my parts just yet due to not having CAD models of my robot created, I can definitely decide which parts I'll use for the major components and why.

After some consideration, I think my robot would be better controlled by a wristband than a glove. This is totally because it would be smaller and look cooler, and *deeeeeefinitely not* because I think it would be way easier to design a wristband than a glove.

This week, I learned that when you don't order parts in bulk like you would for mass manufacturing, they're significantly more expensive. By significantly, I don't mean absurdly priced, but I do mean that a $9 deveopment board goes down in price roughly 50% when ordered in bulk (1000+ units). 

For my components, here's what I think would make sense so far. I want to order everything at once to save on shipping fees, since otherwise they can add up:

```
Battery: 500mAh 3.7V LiPo
"Brain" / microcontroller: esp32-c3 super mini devboard (I already have one)
Inertial Measurement Unit: MPU9250-based module
Battery Charger: TP4056 LiPo charger
Tactile Push Button (for switching modes on the glove)
```

All together, this should come out to ~$20, which is roughly in line with my estimates from last week; in other words, I'm on track. I've also decided it would be fun to give my robot the ability to roast you, motivate you, and disobey you (for a sense of personality). As this shouldn't require anything extra outside of a speaker, this new idea should still fall within my projected budget.

For battery life of the wristband, I'm expecting to get roughly 10 hours per charge based on my current draw expectations and battery size. This could be optimized by purchasing a different low-power development board like the nRF52840 (which is used in devices similar to airtags or bluetooth trackers), but I picked the esp32-c3 because it should work alright and I already have one on hand. Notably, it supports BLE (bluetooth low energy) which should help extend its runtime, although it doesn't have a low power co-processor to read sensor data. All in all, I'm happy with my predicted results.

Here's a schematic/diagram of my idea for my wristband so far:

Next week, I'll tackle the robot itself!